## Requirements

- [Lint requirements](#lint)
- Documentation is generated by `scripts/docgen.lua`.
  - Only works on linux and macOS

## Scope of nvim-lspconfig

The point of lspconfig is to provide the minimal configuration necessary for a server to act in compliance with the language server protocol. In general, if a server requires custom client-side commands or off-spec handlers, then the server configuration should be added *without* those in lspconfig and receive a dedicated plugin such as nvim-jdtls, nvim-metals, etc.

## Pull requests (PRs)

- Mark your pull request as "draft" until it's ready for review.
- Avoid cosmetic changes to unrelated files in the same commit.
- Use a **rebase workflow** for small PRs.
  - After addressing review comments, it's fine to rebase and force-push.

## Adding a server to lspconfig

New configs must meet these criteria (to avoid spam/quasi-marketing/vanity projects):

- GitHub Stars: The server repository should have at least 100 stars, or some other evidence (such as vscode marketplace downloads) that the LSP server is reasonably popular and is not spam/quasi-marketing/vanity projects.
- Provide some reference or evidence that the language targeted by the LSP server has an active user base.

This helps ensure that we only include actively maintained and widely used servers to provide a better experience for
the community.

To add a new language server, start with a minimal skeleton. See `:help lspconfig-new`.

When choosing a config name, convert dashes (`-`) to underscores (`_`). If the name of the server is a unique name (`pyright`, `clangd`) or a commonly used abbreviation (`zls`), prefer this as the server name. If the server instead follows the pattern x-language-server, prefer the convention `x_ls` (`jsonnet_ls`). 

Populate the `config` table with `default_config` and `docs` tables. Avoid over-architected code. Put lists directly in
the `default_config` don't add indirection by defining variables elsewhere in the module. The docs are auto-generated by
reading your `config` source code, so the less indirection in your code, the more useful and obvious the docs will be.

`default_config` should include:

* `cmd`: a list which includes the executable name as the first entry, with arguments constituting subsequent list elements (`--stdio` is common).
  ```lua
  cmd = { 'typescript-language-server', '--stdio' }
  ```
* `filetypes`: list of filetypes that should activate this config.
* `root_dir`: function which returns the root of the project, used to decide if lspconfig should launch a new language server, or attach a previously launched server when you open a new buffer matching the filetype of the server.
    * See `:help lspconfig-new`.
    * See `vim.fs.root()`
    * Do not use `vim.fn.cwd` or `vim.fs.dirname`.

Additionally, these options are often useful:

* `init_options`: table sent during initialization, corresponding to `initializationOptions` sent in [initializeParams](https://microsoft.github.io/language-server-protocol/specifications/lsp/3.17/specification/#initializeParams) as part of the first request sent from client to server during startup.
* `settings`: table sent during [`workspace/didChangeConfiguration`](https://microsoft.github.io/language-server-protocol/specifications/lsp/3.17/specification/#didChangeConfigurationParams) shortly after server initialization. This is an undocumented convention for most language servers. There is often some duplication with `initOptions`.

An example for adding a new config is shown below:

```lua
local util = require 'lspconfig.util'

local function organize_imports()
  local params = {
    command = 'pyright.organizeimports',
    arguments = { vim.uri_from_bufnr(0) },
  }
  vim.lsp.buf.execute_command(params)
end

return {
  default_config = {
    cmd = { 'pyright-langserver', '--stdio' },
    filetypes = { 'python' },
    root_dir = util.root_pattern(
      'pyproject.toml',
      'setup.py',
      'setup.cfg',
      'requirements.txt',
      'Pipfile',
      'pyrightconfig.json',
    ),
    single_file_support = true,
    settings = {
      python = {
        analysis = {
          autoSearchPaths = true,
          useLibraryCodeForTypes = true,
          diagnosticMode = 'workspace',
        },
      },
    },
  },
  commands = {
    PyrightOrganizeImports = {
      organize_imports,
      description = 'Organize Imports',
    },
  },
  docs = {
    description = [[
https://github.com/microsoft/pyright

`pyright`, a static type checker and language server for python
]],
  },
}
```

## Commit style

Follow the Neovim core [commit message guidelines](https://github.com/neovim/neovim/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#commit-messages). Examples:

* Adding a new config for "lua-language-server":
  ```
  feat: lua-language-server
  ```
* Fixing a bug for "lua-language-server":
  ```
  fix(lua-language-server): update root directory pattern

  Problem:
  Root directory incorrectly prefers "foo".

  Solution:
  Rearrange the root dir definition.
  ```

## Lint

PRs are checked with the following software:
- [luacheck](https://github.com/luarocks/luacheck#installation)
- [stylua](https://github.com/JohnnyMorganz/StyLua).
- [selene](https://github.com/Kampfkarren/selene)

To run the linter locally:

    make lint

If using nix, you can use `nix develop` to install these to a local nix shell.

## Generating docs

GitHub Actions automatically generates `configs.md`. Only modify
`scripts/docs_template.md` or the `docs` table in the config code.
Do not modify `configs.md` directly.

To preview the generated `configs.md` locally, run `scripts/docgen.lua` from
`nvim` (from the project root):

    nvim -R -Es +'set rtp+=$PWD' +'luafile scripts/docgen.lua'
